General Information
===================

Gaupol is an editor for text-based subtitle files. It supports multiple
subtitle file formats and provides means of creating subtitles, editing
texts and timing subtitles to match video. The user interface is
designed with attention to batch processing of multiple documents and
convenience of translating.

Gaupol contains aeidon, a separately installable general-purpose
Python package for reading, writing and manipulating text-based
subtitle files. See the file "README.aeidon" for details.

Gaupol is free software released under the GNU General Public License
(GPL), see the file "COPYING" for details.

Dependencies
============

Gaupol requires Python [1] 3.2 or greater and PyGObject [2] 3.0.0 or
greater. Optional dependencies include: GStreamer [3] 1.0 or greater --
required for the integrated video player; pocketsphinx [4] -- required
for speech recognition; PyEnchant [5] 1.4.0 or greater -- required for
spell-checking; pygtkspellcheck [6] -- required for inline
spell-checking; iso-codes [7] -- required to translate language and
country names; Universal Encoding Detector [8] -- required for character
encoding auto-detection; MPlayer [9] or VLC [10] -- recommended for
preview; PT Sans Caption and PT Mono fonts [11] -- recommended and used
by default for integrated video player's subtitle and timecode overlays.
For dependencies required only during installation, see the file
"INSTALL".

  [1] http://www.python.org/
  [2] http://live.gnome.org/PyGObject/
  [3] http://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/
  [4] http://cmusphinx.sourceforge.net/
  [5] http://packages.python.org/pyenchant/
  [6] http://koehlma.github.com/projects/pygtkspellcheck.html
  [7] http://pkg-isocodes.alioth.debian.org/
  [8] http://pypi.python.org/pypi/chardet
  [9] http://www.mplayerhq.hu/
 [10] http://www.videolan.org/vlc/
 [11] http://www.paratype.com/public/

Running
=======

To try Gaupol from the source directory without installation, use
command "python3 bin/gaupol". Installation is, however, necessary for
mimetype integration, application menu entry and user interface
translations. For installing Gaupol, see the file "INSTALL".
